Date: 11/06/2021  Load Balancers

1. Difference between HTTP and HTTPS --> HTTPS is secure than HTTP
2. HTTPS uses TLS (Transport Layer Security). SSL (Secure Socket Layer) is a old name 
3. We redirect traffic from HTTP to HTTPS. 
4. HTTPS use Certificate. We call it encryption in transit.
5. Default port for HTTPS --> 443
6. Default port for HTTP --> 80
7. In order to use Certificate we need to obtain it from CA (Certificate Authority)
8. Elastic IP is a static IP. If you use (Reserve) Elastic IP AWS doesn't charge you. If you reserve Elastic IP 
but don't use AWS will charge you. 

ALB/ASG (Auto Scaling Group)

Scenario:

1. We have e-commerce application. We are selling Sony MX4 headsets. Original Price is $350 and plus tax.
Currently we have $100 off for this product as a pre Black Friday sale and this will last only 7 days. 
Due to sale more users start hitting the website and making more purchases. It will increase the traffic. 
2 Instances aren't enough to handle the traffic. We need to build scalable infrastructure. Also we have to 
build Cost-Optimized infrastructure. After 7 days of sales traffic will go back to normal. 
For example during peak time we increased (scaled up) our instances from 2 to 4. But during regular time 
2 instances are enough to handle the traffic. We have decrease (scale down) the number instances. 

Extra note: Horizontal scaling means adding more machines to the resource pool, rather than simply 
adding resources by scaling vertically. ... Scaling horizontally is the same as scaling by adding 
more machines to a pool or resources — but instead of adding more power, CPUs, or RAM, you scale 
back to existing infrastructure.

Kaizen is a Japanese term meaning "change for the better" or "continuous improvement." 
It is a Japanese business philosophy regarding the processes that continuously improve 
operations and involve all employees. Kaizen sees improvement in productivity as a gradual 
and methodical process.

After building scalable infrastructure we need to test it in order to verify/justify that it won't break 
during the peak traffic. We need to conduct STRESS testing. 

sudo amazon-linux-extras install epel -y
sudo yum install -y stress
stress --cpu 2 --timeout 300

Click on Control+C after testing to stop stress testing. 

After this number of instances must go back to Desired Capacity. It will take some time and it's called 
Cooldown period. 
